# Dataset Generator (DAGE)

This tool provides a flexible command-line tool to generate relevance datasets for search evaluation. It can retrieve
documents from a search engine, generate synthetic queries, and score the relevance of document-query pairs using LLMs.

## Setup configuration files

### DAGE configuration file

Create a [config.yaml](../../configs/dataset_generator/dataset_generator_config.yaml) file in the dataset-generator directory. This file 
controls the entire generation process. The parameters needed are:
> - **query_template** (Optional): Template file given by the user to evaluate the search system using relevance judgements generated by the 
>dataset-generator module (e.g., "resources/template_solr.json")
> - **search_engine_type**: Type of search engine to use
>   - accepted values:
>     - "solr"
>     - "elasticsearch"
>     - "opensearch"
> - **collection_name**: Name of the search engine index/collection (e.g., "testcore", the one used in Docker containers)
> - **search_engine_url**: URL of the search engine (e.g., "http://localhost:8983/solr/")
> - **documents_filter**: Filter query to restrict the set of documents used to generate queries. If a field has more 
than one value, the documents retrieved have at least one of the values in the field (OR-like). If there are more than 
one fields, the documents are filtered for both fields (AND-like)
>   - and example could be:
>     - genre:
>       - "horror"
>       - "fantasy"
>     - type:
>       - "book"
> - **doc_number**: Maximum number of documents to retrieve from the search engine to generate queries (e.g. 100)
> - **doc_fields**: List of fields from documents used to generate queries and relevance scoring. These should match 
> fields available in the search engine schema and must be at least one field
>   - an example could be:
>       - "title"
>       - "description"
> - **queries** (Optional): File containing predefined queries to use instead of or alongside generated ones. If 
> available, must be in a txt format (e.g., "queries.txt")
> - **generate_queries_from_documents** (Optional): Whether to generate queries from documents. Default to `true`; set
> to `false` to disable query generation from documents
> - **num_queries_needed**: Total number of queries to generate, including predefined queries, if any (e.g., 20)
> - **relevance_scale**: Relevance scale used for scoring document relevance
>   - accepted values: "binary" or "graded", where
>     - binary: 0 (not relevant), 1 (relevant)
>     - graded: 0 (not relevant), 1 (maybe ok), 2 (that’s my result)
> - **llm_configuration_file**: Path to the LLM configuration file (e.g., "dataset-generator/llm_config.yaml")
> - **output_format**: Output format for the generated dataset
>   - accepted values: 
>     - "quepid"
>     - "rre"
>     - "mteb"
> - **output_destination**: Path where the output dataset will be saved (e.g., "resources")
> - **save_llm_explanation**: Whether to save LLM rating score explanation to file. Defaults to `false`
> - **llm_explanation_destination** (Needed only if `save_llm_explanation: true`): File path where it contains 
> <query, doc_id, rating, explanation> records (e.g., "resources/rating_explanation.json")
> - **datastore_autosave_every_n_updates** (Optional): Number of successful updates (adds or ratings) after which 
> - the in-memory datastore is saved. If not given, the datastore is saved at the end of the process.

#### Some important things to add

If we set `output_format: "rre"` we need to add other parameters to the configuration file.
> - **id_field**: id field used by the search engine (e.g., "id")
> - **rre_query_placeholder**: Query placeholder used in RRE for logging purposes (e.g., "\$query", this should be kept 
> set to "\$query" as much as possible)
> - **rre_query_template** (Optional): This is the file that will be used by RRE (if invoked) to run evaluation. If 
> not filled, is the same as query_template (e.g., "resources/only_vector.json")

More than that, output dataset will be saved into a file named `ratings.json` in the output_destination directory.

If we set `output_format: "quepid"`, output dataset will be saved into a file named `quepid.csv` in the 
output_destination directory.

If we set `output_format: "mteb"`, output dataset will be saved into 3 different files in the output_destination 
directory:
- `corpus.jsonl`: contains <id,title,text> corpus records extracted from search engine;
- `queries.jsonl`: contains <id,text> query records LLM-generated and/or user-defined;
- `candidates.jsonl`: contains <query_id,doc_id,rating> candidate records.

### LLM configuration file

Fill [LLM configuration file](../../configs/dataset_generator/llm_config.yaml) with your information and create the `.env` file in dataset-generator 
folder with your own API key.

Place yourself in the main directory (`rre-tools/`) and create a `.env` file to store the API key:

```bash
echo "OPENAI_API_KEY=<your-key-here>" > dataset-generator/.env
```

The parameters needed are:
> - **name**: The name of the provider
>   - accepted providers:
>     - openai
>     - gemini
> - **model**: Chat model name of the chosen provider
> - **max_tokens**: An integer indicating the maximum number of token for the generation process
> - **api_key_env**: Same that you used in the .env file (e.g., `OPENAI_API_KEY` or `GOOGLE_API_KEY`)
