rre-embeddings/README.md, before:

# Exact Search Evaluator

## Code Quality Tools

This project uses [Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff) for linting and [Mypy](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/) for static type checking to maintain code quality and consistency.

### Running Code Quality Checks

#### Linting with Ruff
```bash
# Check for issues
ruff check .

# Auto-fix fixable issues
ruff check --fix .

# Format code (if formatter is enabled)
ruff format .
```

#### Type Checking with Mypy
```bash
# Run type checking
mypy .
```

### Configuration Files
- `ruff.toml`: Configures Ruff's linting rules and settings
- `mypy.ini`: Configures Mypy's type checking settings

> **Exact Search vs. Approximate Search**

- **Approximate Search** uses a proxy to score a subset of documents considered *similar* via a pre-filtering stage. Techniques like ANN (Approximate Nearest Neighbors) rely on precomputed structures in the index (e.g., HNSW, IVF) to accelerate retrieval at the cost of some accuracy.

- **Exact Search**, by contrast here we compute the distance between every query and every document in the dataset (brute-force). This guarantees finding the "true" nearest neighbors (limited to the embedding model precision on the domain), but is computationally expensive and scales worse with dataset size.


> **Input parameters:**
- embedding model name (list)
- dataset metadata (list - name, path or url)
- task_to_evaluate (internal mapping (name-id)? EG: {"Retrieval:0, Rerank: 1..}, or flat. Eg: "Retrieval", "Rerank"..)

## Installing and Use

```bash
# create env if don't exists
uv venv .venv

# activate env
source .venv/bin/activate

# install dependencies
uv pip install -e . 

# now we can run the package entry point with our alias
## ( Check the pyproject.toml line: [project.scripts] rre-embeddings = "main:main")
rre-embeddings
```

## Proposed execution (Future Work)

### 1. Run exact search evaluator with CLI arguments
```bash
rre-embeddings --embedding-model "model_name" --dataset "path_to_dataset" --task-to-evaluate "Retrieval" --output_path "path_to_output"
```


### 2. Run exact search evaluator with  yaml config file
```bash
rre-embeddings --config "path_to_config_yaml"
```

Commit message:

Added clear distinction between uv sync and uv pip install -e .

rre-embeddings/README.md, after:

# Exact Search Evaluator

## Code Quality Tools

This project uses [Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff) for linting and [Mypy](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/) for static type checking to maintain code quality and consistency.

### Running Code Quality Checks

#### Linting with Ruff
```bash
# Check for issues
ruff check .

# Auto-fix fixable issues
ruff check --fix .

# Format code (if formatter is enabled)
ruff format .
```

#### Type Checking with Mypy
```bash
# Run type checking
mypy .
```

### Configuration Files
- `ruff.toml`: Configures Ruff's linting rules and settings
- `mypy.ini`: Configures Mypy's type checking settings

> **Exact Search vs. Approximate Search**

- **Approximate Search** uses a proxy to score a subset of documents considered *similar* via a pre-filtering stage. Techniques like ANN (Approximate Nearest Neighbors) rely on precomputed structures in the index (e.g., HNSW, IVF) to accelerate retrieval at the cost of some accuracy.

- **Exact Search**, by contrast here we compute the distance between every query and every document in the dataset (brute-force). This guarantees finding the "true" nearest neighbors (limited to the embedding model precision on the domain), but is computationally expensive and scales worse with dataset size.


> **Input parameters:**
- embedding model name (list)
- dataset metadata (list - name, path or url)
- task_to_evaluate (internal mapping (name-id)? EG: {"Retrieval:0, Rerank: 1..}, or flat. Eg: "Retrieval", "Rerank"..)

## Installing and Use

```bash
# create env if don't exists
uv venv .venv

# activate env
source .venv/bin/activate

# install dependencies (editable mode - for devs)
uv pip install -e . 

# install dependencies (for users)
uv sync

# now we can run the package entry point with our alias
## ( Check the pyproject.toml line: [project.scripts] rre-embeddings = "main:main")
rre-embeddings
```

## Proposed execution (Future Work)

### 1. Run exact search evaluator with CLI arguments
```bash
rre-embeddings --embedding-model "model_name" --dataset "path_to_dataset" --task-to-evaluate "Retrieval" --output_path "path_to_output"
```


### 2. Run exact search evaluator with  yaml config file
```bash
rre-embeddings --config "path_to_config_yaml"
```
